# Elementary

This is Elementary, a minimal yet powerful theme for the Ghost CMS. 
*[Demo](https://flamingo.stylesheets.dev)*

## Features

- Works with the latest Ghost version – 2.x
- Supports all inbuilt features of ghost
- Responsive layout
- SEO optimized
- Email subscription form
- Disqus comments
- Post sharing icons
- Highlight sharing 
- Social media icons included (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Github, Pinterest, Linkedin, Youtube, Tumblr, Medium, Reddit, 500px, Dribbble)
- Optimized for great reading experience on phones, tablets and desktops
- Regular updates



## First time using a Ghost theme?

Ghost uses a simple templating language called [Handlebars](http://handlebarsjs.com/) for its themes.

We've documented the theme pretty heavily so that it should be fairly easy to work out what's going on just by reading the code and the comments. Once you feel comfortable with how everything works, you can also view full [theme API documentation](https://themes.ghost.org) which explains every possible Handlebars helper and template.

**The main files are:**

- `default.hbs` - The main template file
- `home.hbs` – Used for the home page
- `index.hbs` - Used as fallback if home.hbs is not present
- `post.hbs` - Used for individual posts
- `page.hbs` - Used for individual pages
- `tag.hbs` - Used for tag archives
- `author.hbs` - Used for author archives
- **assets** 
  - **src** - It containes the source Javascript and SCSS files, which gets compiled to the `built` directory.
  - **built** - It containes the compiled CSS and JS.
  - **img** - Containes the images.
- **dist** - This directory is generated by the `$ npm run build` command and contains the theme's zip file.
- **partials** - This directory contains the partials used in the theme

One neat trick is that you can also create custom one-off templates just by adding the slug of a page to a template file. For example:

- `page-about.hbs` - Custom template for the `/about/` page
- `tag-news.hbs` - Custom template for `/tag/news/` archive
- `author-ali.hbs` - Custom template for `/author/ali/` archive



## Development

The theme uses Gulp and NodeJs for the development purposes. You'll need Gulp and Nodejs installed globally. After that from the theme's root directory run the following commands.

```bash
$ npm install 
$ npm run dev
```
Now you can edit the SCSS and JS files in `/assets/src/` , which will be compiled to `/assets/built/` automatically.

The `build` Gulp task minifies all the CSS & JS files and packages the theme into `dist/<theme-name>.zip`, which you can then upload to your site.

```bash
$ npm run build
```



## Customizations

To change colors/fonts of the theme, you can modify the `/assets/src/styles/partials/_variables.scss` file. After modifications, complile the SASS files again by following command –
```bash
$ npm run build
```



## How to Activate Disqus Comments

1. Open up the `post.hbs` file in any text editor.
2. Look for the comments section.
3. Add the following code snippet in the comments section.
   ```html
   
      <section class="post-comments">
        <div id="disqus_thread"></div>
        <script>
            var disqus_config = function () {
                this.page.url = '{{url absolute="true"}}';
                this.page.identifier = 'ghost-{{comment_id}}';
            };
            (function() {
                var d = document, s = d.createElement('script');
                s.src = 'https://<YOUR DISQUS SHORTNAME>.disqus.com/embed.js';
                s.setAttribute('data-timestamp', +new Date());
                (d.head || d.body).appendChild(s);
            })();
        </script>
      </section>

   ```
4. Don't forget to modify the `s.src = 'https://<YOUR SITE'S DISQUS SHORTNAME>.disqus.com/embed.js';` to your disqus url. 



## Social Media Icons

Icons for Facebook, Twitter, Behance, Dribbble, 500px, Github, Gmail, Instagram, Linkedin, Medium, Pinterest, Reddit, RSS, Tumblr, & Youtube are included in the theme. Icons for Facebook and Twitter are already implemented in the code. To activate icons for other social networks, insert the following code snippets in the respective files.
#### In Footer.hbs

```html
<a href="" target="_blank">
   {{> "icons/dribbble"}}
</a>
```
#### In Author.hbs
```html
<a class="link-with-svg" href="" target="_blank" rel="noopener">
      <span class="link-svg">
      {{> "icons/dribbble"}}
      </span>
      <span class="link-text">Dribbble</span>
</a>
```
If you require more icons, you may visit [Simple Icons](https://simpleicons.org/) and download the required icons. 



## Feedback and Support 

Need any help? you can reach [me](https://arban.co) out here – 

[support@buildesk.co](mailto:support@buildesk.co)  ·  [Twitter](https://twitter.com/arp_ban)  ·  [Creative Market](https://creativemarket.com/StylesheetsDev)



## Copyright & License

Copyright (c) 2019 [Stylesheets Dev](https://stylesheets.dev)
